# Mercury

Terminal-like blog theme built from [Astro](https://astro.build), still in early beta.

Demo: https://icy-beach-00f5be01e.6.azurestaticapps.net/

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

> NOTE: We are migrating to Astro 6! The older version, which will be live on `astro-5` branch, may not support all features listed below.  

## 🌌 Features
- Minimal, terminal like
- Ship only necessary JavaScript (even can be no JavaScript at all)
- Full text search ~~based on `Fuse.js`~~
- Full text RSS
- Create Blogrolls via a YAML file
- Your status at Fediverse, now at your home
- Comments powered by multiple engines
- Umami/Goatcounter statics support
- TeX formulas support

## 🚀 Getting Started
clone the repo and install dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://git.gb0.dev/gb/mercury.git
```
```bash
cd mercury && pnpm install
```
run the dev server:

```bash
pnpm run dev
```
open [localhost:4321](http://localhost:4321) in your browser.

## 🔧 Usage
All you need is editing the `astro.config.mjs`'s site & base.

For further config, edit `src/config.ts` according to the comment.

To start writing, put your Markdown & mdx files to /src/content/posts folder.

To create a page, put Markdown files into /src/content/pages folder.

Shortcode-like components is also available at /src/components/shortcodes folder.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                    | Action                                           |
| :------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `pnpm install`             | Installs dependencies                            |
| `pnpm run dev`             | Starts local dev server at `localhost:4321`      |
| `pnpm run build`           | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `pnpm run preview`         | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `pnpm run astro ...`       | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `pnpm run astro -- --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## 🗺 Roadmap
- [x] Initial project setup
- [x] Basic theme implementation
- [x] Better full-text search without `Fuse.js`
- [x] A mode to make the site 0 JavaScript
- [x] Multiple authors via YAML
- [ ] i18n support
  - [x] UI text
    - [ ] Support more languages (help needed!)
  - [x] Localized content
    - [ ] Alternative structure like Hugo's `index.[lang].md`
  - [x] Translations
    - [ ] Better language switcher
- [x] Better support for printing version
- [ ] Add support for more comment engines
- [ ] Multiple comment engines in the same page
- [x] Add support for umami statics
- [x] Improve documentation
- [ ] Bump to Astro 6
- [ ] Release v1.0
- [ ] ~~Integrate with Fediverse w/ activityPub~~
- [ ] ~~Plain text version when visiting the site via `curl`~~ (can't be done with SSG mode)

## ⚙️ Advanced Usage
### activitypub support
There is an ongoing work to implement it on [lab ran by the author](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BlockG-ws/gb-lab/) based on [Astro DB](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/astro-db/#query-your-database) and [fedify](https://fedify.dev). Once it's done, the instructions will be updated here.
### i18n
i18n support for UI text and content translations is implemented, but the language switcher may be broken for some pages.

To further implement i18n, you can:
1. Create a new folder under `src/content/posts/` with the **language code** as the name (e.g., `en`, `zh-CN`, etc.).
2. Copy your translated Markdown files into the new folder.
3. Update the i18n config in `astro.config.mjs` to include the new language code.
4. Rebuild the site.
### plain text version when visiting the site via `curl`
The text version of the site is generated by `src/pages/blog/[slug].txt.js`, which outputs a plain text version of the blog post.
To access it, you can visit `https://your-site.com/blog/your-post-slug.txt`.

To automatically output the text version when visiting the site via `curl`, you can:
1. If you are using caddy, add the following to your `Caddyfile`:
   ```caddyfile
    @no_html {
        # Match if Accept header does NOT contain text/html
        not header_regexp Accept (?i)text/html
        # Match the path and capture the blog slug
        path_regexp text ^/blog/(.*)$
    }
    
    # Handle the matched request
    handle @no_html {
        # Use the capture group from the 'text' path_regexp
        rewrite /blog/{re.text.1}.txt
    }

   ```
2. If you are using cloudflare to proxy your site, you can add a page rule to redirect requests with the `curl` user agent to the `.txt` version of the blog post:
   If incoming requests match (Custom filter expression):
   ```
   (http.request.uri.path matches "^/blog/.*" and not any(http.request.headers["accept"][*] contains "text/html"))
   ```
   Then (Rewrite to,static):
   ```
    /blog/${1}.txt
   ```
3. If you are using other web servers, you can use functions like `rewrite` or `redirect` by user agent (HTTP header) to achieve the same effect.
### Alternative Syntax Highlighting
Apart from the default shiki for highlighting, You can use [Prism](https://prismjs.com/) as code highlighting engine, see [Syntax Highlighting in Astro Docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/syntax-highlighting/#add-a-prism-stylesheet) for details.

To simply add features like code copying over the default Shiki formatter, you can simply import the `src/components/CodeScript.astro` to the Layout.

You can also use [Expressive Code](https://expressive-code.com/) to get features like code copying over the syntax highlighting:
> Warning: Expressive Code will load JavaScript by default. This will not follow your `noClientJavaScript` settings.

1. Install Expressive Code:
   ```shell
   pnpm astro add astro-expressive-code
   ```
   You can answer all Yes to prompts as we will modify the config later.
2. Edit `astro.config.mjs`:
    ```diff
    - integrations: [sitemap(), mdx(), partytown(), expressiveCode()],
    + integrations: [sitemap(), expressiveCode(), mdx(), partytown()],
    ```
3. Create `ec.config.mjs` in the project root and adjust the config to your liking. To make things easier you can use [this config file used by the author](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BlockG-ws/gb-lab/refs/heads/master/ec.config.mjs)

## 👀 Want to learn more?

See the post [🕊](). I hope you like it. 💜

## 😊 Special Thanks
The terminal theme from [bearblog](https://bearblog.dev) is cool, and it inspired me to create a theme like this.

[Bolt](https://bolt.new) by StackBlitz (anyway I'm not affiliated with them) helps me to create a starter template from screenshot when I don't know where to start, the one now is much different from the template though.

Other tools like GitHub Copilot helps too.

(I know the LLMs sometimes sucks, but it really helps most of the time)

Also, [delucis/astro-blog-full-text-rss](https://github.com/delucis/astro-blog-full-text-rss) for implementing full text RSS in pretty easy way.
## ⚖️ License
GNU Affero Public License 3.0